[MUSIC PLAYING]
ADDY: So Matt, what's the
one feature that keeps
you coming back to native apps?
MATT: Probably, offline support.
It's that whole
thing of you know
you're going to be somewhere
with flaky network,
and you just want it to work.
ADDY: Yeah.
MATT: That's probably it.
ADDY: So offline's
probably the one thing
that keeps me going back
to native apps as well.
Now, there's a bunch of apps
that I need offline support in,
like news readers
and things like that.
But there's probably--
I don't know.
Kids today use a ton of apps
that I don't, like dating apps.
Back in my day, you had
to run through the city
with a megaphone screaming,
why does no one want me?
MATT: You're probably doing it
wrong, I'm just going to say.
ADDY: Probably am.
So offline, a user
goes to your web page.
They probably are going
to run into a situation
where they have a flaky network.
Maybe they're on the train,
maybe they're at a conference,
or in a hotel.
MATT: Yeah.
ADDY: Right.
Now in the past,
we've had capabilities
like app cache, which
weren't really that reliable
and sort of a
nightmare to debug.
MATT: Yeah, no one
really used it.
And there's that
classic Jake blog post.
ADDY: Cache is a douche bag.
MATT: Yeah.
ADDY: Yes.
These days, we're in a
slightly better position.
We've got new APIs,
like Service Worker.
Now Service Worker
is like a script
that's run by your
browser in the background.
And it opens up the door to
lots of new capabilities.
MATT: Yeah.
So there's push.
There's offline support.
There's background sync.
ADDY: And there's a whole host
of other features coming down
the pipeline.
MATT: Yeah.
ADDY: But it's like this
really nice low-level API that
lets you intercept
network requests
and just take control of
what's going on with caching.
Super nice.
MATT: Yeah.
So you've got your web page,
Service Worker in the middle,
before it gets to the network.
So we can kind of manipulate,
basically, outgoing traffic,
or just keep stuff from
going to the network
and just return from a cache.
ADDY: So the first step
to getting your app
working with Service Worker is
to register a Service Worker
script.
That allows background
functionality,
without the web page
necessarily having to be open.
MATT: Yep.
You're just making
the browser aware
that this is my special
Service Worker JavaScript file.
ADDY: How about we take
a look at some code?
MATT: So the first
thing you're always
going to want to do is just
check whether Service Worker is
actually supported, so if
serviceWorker in navigator.
Assuming it is,
you then just call
navigator.servic
eWorker.register.
And you pass in the path through
your Service Worker file.
And here, we're
just using Promises.
So then, in cache, you just
say whether it worked or not.
And that's literally it.
And the important
thing to point out here
is it's a progressive
enhancement, right?
So if you're in a browser
that doesn't support Service
Worker, that never gets called.
You're just in
exactly the same land
as you would have been
without Service Worker.
ADDY: Right.
So you get your same
non-offline experience
without Service Worker.
What about what's inside
the Service Worker script?
MATT: So the minute that kicks
off, what the browser will do
is it will just go and grab
your Service Worker file,
and then just start running it
in the background of the page.
So in this case, the first
thing you're going to want to do
is manage the install event.
So in this case,
self.addEventListener.
So you're just saying, in the
Service Worker, add this event.
And you want to open up
a cache, so caches.open.
You give it some name.
That's kind of important
because, over time, you're
going to want to add a different
version [? of this name. ?]
ADDY: What's this?
Your name space, right?
MATT: Yep.
And once you've got
your cache object,
you just call cache.addAll.
This is a super
helpful little method,
because you literally
pass in an array of paths.
And everything
inside that array,
it would just go and fetch
in the network and cache.
ADDY: So here, you're
interacting with the cache API?
MATT: Yes.
So that's different
from the HTTP cache.
This is a cache
that you control.
So nothing will get deleted,
or replaced, or added to it,
unless you explicitly do it.
But yeah.
So the only real
caveat to all of this
is, in the cache.addAll, if
you add in some random file
that your server errors out on
and returns an error code, that
will make the
install event fail.
The install event
fails, that means
the Service Worker
won't install,
which means the web
page will never use it.
It's kind of just
a safety mechanism.
If something bad happens
in the install event,
Service Worker just won't
affect your page whatsoever.
It will retry, but it won't
actually affect the page.
So that's the install event.
That won't actually give you
offline support, because it's
not actually getting used.
Nothing's saying, use
this, use the cache
to respond to a network.
That's where you've
got the fetch event.
Ta-da!
ADDY: Now, fetch is using
the new fetch API, right?
MATT: In this example, yeah.
But it's slightly
unfortunate the fact there's
the fetch event,
and then there's
the Fetch API, because
obviously, the name is exactly
the same.
They are slightly different.
So the fetch event will fire.
And basically, this
will happen whenever
a page that's controlled by a
Service Worker makes a request.
So for the page itself,
images, styles, anything,
it will run through this event.
And here what we're
saying is, caches.match.
This is a super
helpful little method
that just says,
for this request,
is there anything
in the cache that
can actually respond with it?
So here, in the following thing,
we say, if there is a response,
then just return it.
Otherwise, return the fetch.
So here, that's where the
actual fetch API comes in.
And this is basically
the same as an XHL.
So it will go off
to the network,
find it, and return it.
And then, that will pump
it up to the browser.
Those two steps
alone will then just
give you offline support, if you
cache everything ahead of time.
ADDY: OK.
So once you've got
all this set up
and you want to test
that your Service Worker
setup is working
correctly, you've
got to dive in to DevTools.
MATT: Yep.
ADDY: So serve up your
app, check that it works.
Go to Network Throttling
and just toggle Offline.
MATT: Doink.
ADDY: And if you
refresh your page--
[AIR HORN]
MATT: And yes, we can do
the annoying air horn noise.
[AIR HORN]
ADDY: That doesn't just
work on desktop, right?
That should still work
on phones as well.
[AIR HORN]
That's the best thing ever.
MATT: But yeah.
So now you know
it works offline,
which is super awesome.
And this is super high level.
There is a much better place
to get all of this information,
in terms of stepping
through Service Worker.
It also covers some
of the caveats,
as well as the activate step,
which we haven't covered.
ADDY: Yeah.
If you want to learn more, check
out the Service Worker Offline
Collab over on Web Fundamentals.
[MUSIC PLAYING]